Last time on Sonic X,
when plants began
taking over planets,
it seemed the Metarex were
on the verge of victory.
But tables soon turned when
the power of the Planet Egg
came to the aid of
Sonic and his friends.
With his scheme for cosmic
conquest at an end,
Dark Oak made a last-ditch
move to destroy the galaxy,
squeezing the Planet
Egg in a gravity field
in order to cause an
enormous explosion.
Sonic and Shadow launched an
attack on the fearsome field,
but were powerless
to punch through.
With time running out,
Cosmo got a message
from her mother saying she was the
only hope to stop the Metarex.
Shadow and Sonic watched in wonder
as Cosmo passed through the
gravity field to defy Dark Oak,
but her plan had a price.
To deliver the galaxy
from destruction,
Tails had to fire the Power Cannon
at the field, and at Cosmo.
Tails refused,
so Cosmo explained the blast
would help the seeds of her clan
spread across space.
With one shot at saving the
galaxy, did Tails hit his mark?
And what became of Cosmo?
Find out next on Sonic X!
Go, go, go, go, go
Gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Movin' at the speed of sound,
quickest hedgehog around
Got ourselves a situation
Stuck in a new location
Without any explanation
No talk of relaxation
Don't, don't, don't
Don't blink, don't think
Just go, go, go, go
Go, go
Sonic is on the run
Sonic, he's number one
Sonic, he's coming next,
so watch out for Sonic X
-Gotta go fast
-Sonic
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster, faster
Go, go, go, go, go, go, go
Sonic X
Gotta go faster,
gotta go fast
Gotta go faster, faster,
faster, faster
Sonic X
[All gasp]
[Crying] Oh, no! Cosmo!
[Crying]
Huh?
Cosmo!
Earthia was right.
My thirst for power
destroyed my people,
and brought nothing but pain
and suffering to the galaxy.
EARTHIA: Lucas!
Huh?
It is over now. The
galaxy is saved.
Earthia!
I feared I'd never see you again.
We have a second chance now, Lucas.
The time has come for all
creatures to live in peace,
including you and me.
ALL: Huh.
[All crying]
COSMO: Thank you all
for your friendship.
Before I met you, I didn't
believe in myself.
My clan was wiped
out by the Metarex.
I felt like I was helpless and
couldn't do anything to stop them,
but because of you, I
learned that I didn't
have to stand by and watch
the Metarex take over.
I could do my part to fight
back and help restore my clan.
I just wanted you to
know that I'm happy now
because I fulfilled my destiny.
Remember, I'll always be with you.
Don't be sad, Tails.
Huh?
Whenever you miss me, just look
for me right here beside you.
Ah.
[Kiss]
Goodbye, Cosmo.
[Grunting]
Chaos...
Control!
The seeds of my clan will
spread through the galaxy
and find places to grow.
I'm at peace now...
Goodbye.
No! No!
The Planet Egg is about
to release its power!
We have to get out of here!
Activate emergency Egg Drive!
It is impossible for us
to go into warp space.
Nothing on this ship is working,
including the engines.
We don't have power, remember?
Oh yeah. I forgot.
It slipped my master mind.
[All laughing]
Huh?
If the Planet Egg lets
out all its energy,
the others won't have
enough time to get away.
I have to move.
Chaos
[Grunting]
Aaah!
Hold on, Shadow!
Whoa-oa-oa!
Sorry, friend, but I'm taking over.
After all, we wouldn't want you
to hurt yourself, now would we?
Chaos Control!
Hey, what just happened?
Where's Shadow?
He's gone.
BOKKUN: Whoa! Is that a star?
DECOE: I do not think so,
but what is it, Dr. Eggman?
I'm not sure, but it appears that
Shadow has stopped time in that spot.
BOCOE: What do you think
happened to Shadow?
Who knows?
He just made a risky move,
and unfortunately, it
may have been his last.
He used Chaos Control.
It must have taken all the
energy that he had left.
Shadow...
[Crying]
Huh?
Sonic?
Uh... Sonic, I know
you're mad at me, but I-
Huh?
Here, Tails.
Sorry.
I looked for Cosmo, but
this is all I found.
A seed?
[Crying]
Oh, Sonic!
Why did this have to happen?
[Crying]
It's... just not fair!
Now I'll never see her again!
[Sobbing]
She was... she was my friend!
I miss her.
She can't be gone!
[Sobbing]
BOKKUN: It's amazing!
DECOE: Those are all Planet Eggs.
BOCOE: There must be thousands,
or millions of them!
BOKKUN: But where
are they going to?
They are all returning home...
to the planets they came from.
Quick, take a picture
of me with them!
Impossible!
The camera batteries
are completely drained.
You even used the
batteries on Sonic?
We were told to send all
power to the Blue Typhoon.
Yeah, we just followed orders.
Tinheads!
How dare you?!
DR. EGGMAN: Quit bickering and get to
work restoring power to the Egg Drive!
Right away, Doctor!
After we defeated the Metarex,
we finally went back home--
to Sonic's planet, that is.
It was good to rest up and relax
after all the battles we fought.
I guess you do deserve a little
vacation after saving the galaxy.
This was the first time
we'd really taken it easy
since I had transported
myself here.
It seemed like a long time had
passed since I'd left the lab...
almost like it was a dream.
We had a lot of fun
during those days,
but I couldn't stop thinking
of my family and friends
I'd left back in my own world.
And none of us would ever
forget the brave friend
we lost during our final
fight with Dark Oak.
[Whoosh]
Hmm.
The Master Emerald should
return to its normal state
once its power is restored.
Will you do your chant?
Please hear me, oh Master
Emerald, and be restored now!
Like that?
[Chuckling] Yeah, your
chant is pretty funny.
Uh, I didn't mean that.
No offense taken.
I think I'll let nature
take its course.
The Master Emerald helped save the
galaxy, so it needs time to heal.
In the meantime, I decided...
to kick back and take it easy.
We deserve a rest, too, Chris.
I guess so.
Since it looks like I'm
gonna be staying here,
I was wondering how I could go
about building myself a house.
Huh? What do you mean "how?"
You just go ahead and build it.
You make it sound so easy,
but it's not so simple.
There's a lot to think about,
like where would I build it?
What do you mean "where?"
There's tons of land
all around you.
Just pick a spot.
What if that spot belongs
to someone else?
In our world, it's first
come, first served.
[Laughing]
Hm?
Hey!
You're not planning
on building one here?!
Well, I figured around
these old ruins
was about as good a place as any.
It's kind of pretty, you know?
Sure, its pretty.
You go right ahead and build.
It's just lucky your
good friend Knuckles
didn't have this spot
picked out for his place.
[Laughing] Yeah, lucky!
That was a hint, kid.
Hey, Knuckles,
I'm really happy for all you
guys, being home and all.
Yeah, it sure is nice.
DR. EGGMAN: I can't believe it.
Huh?
You're worried about
Shadow, aren't you?
Of course not.
I don't give a hoot what
happened to that hedgehog.
Is that so?
Well, I'm not at all
concerned about Shadow.
He was designed to be the ultimate
creature by my grandfather,
Dr. Robotnik, who was almost
as great a genius as me!
So, where do you think he is?
Hmm.
He knows something.
Well, Rouge, it's time
for me to bust a move.
[Grunt]
I'm going to scrap this ship soon.
I suggest you find new
living arrangements.
Hey, Chris!
I've got something for you!
If it's from Eggman,
I don't want it.
[Laughing]
How'd you know?
I think this is my most
explosive delivery ever.
You'll get a real bang out of it.
Here. Oh?
BOKUN: Come on out here!
CHRIS: No way.
But, Chris, I promise
it's not a trick.
Dr. Eggman's sending you a present.
Really?
COSMO: Sonic, send a message
to all of my wonderful friends.
Tell them I'm all right.
I am with my mother.
We have found a new home,
filled with peace and tranquility.
Harmony reigns here, and
we are as one with nature.
Tell them all that they
are noble and good,
and that because of them, the
darkness has been vanquished.
Tell Tails to look to
the trees and the sky.
That is where I will be.
I'll tell him.
And hey, I know I'm not much
for getting mushy or anything,
but I want you to know, Cosmo,
it was sure great
having you around.
Goodbye, Sonic.
Goodbye.
[Laughter]
Huh.
What's this all about, Eggman?
It's exactly what I wrote there.
I assume that you
read it, didn't you?
Sure.
It says it's a one-way ticket home.
Never underestimate the superiority
of Dr. Eggman's intellect.
He gave his brain cells
a real workout this time.
Uh, you mean this ship?
Yes, it will instantly transport
you back to your own world.
This will be its first
and only voyage.
ALL: So pack your duds,
and let's blast off!
DR. EGGMAN: There's only enough
power in its engines for one trip.
After that, the machine
will be useless,
but it should be adequate
to return you to your world.
I can't believe you went to all
this trouble just for me, Doctor.
[Chuckling]
Don't thank me yet, kid.
Once you learn the full story,
you may not want to go.
Huh?
I'm absolutely certain it will
return you to your planet,
but I have no idea how old your
body will be when you get there.
I have confidence in you, Doctor.
I'll take that chance.
But you only have a
three minute window.
DECOE: That isn't
much time, Doctor.
BOCOE: Can't you make it three days
so we can throw him a goodbye party?
Impossible.
The quantum alignment that
makes travel possible
between our worlds will only
last for three more minutes.
This is the only time
when travel can occur.
After that, Chris
would be stuck here.
Can I return?
It's difficult to say.
I'm not sure when the
alignment will reoccur.
It could be in a week,
or not for 10,000 years.
You mean the fact that I was able
to travel here was just a fluke,
and I may not be able to come back?
It would appear so.
The universe has its
own set of cycles.
No matter how advanced our technology
is, we can't change that.
I see.
So then I guess this
is goodbye, Doctor.
You've been a terrific
ally, and a worthy enemy.
Good luck.
You could stay here
with us, you know?
I'm sure Dr. Eggman would offer
you a job if you asked him.
We could always use
good help around here!
DECOE: Take care, Chris!
BOCOE: Say hello to
your family for us.
All right, then, I'll tell Sonic
and the rest of your pals
you were smiling
when you left here!
Are you sure you wanna go?
That's too bad. We just
got to be friends!
[Crying] Goodbye!
[Crying]
I wish I didn't have
to rush off like this.
I hope the others
don't get mad at me.
KNUCKLES: I sure am
gonna miss that kid.
AMY: Me too.
CREAM: He didn't even say goodbye.
TAILS: I'm sure he wanted to,
but maybe he didn't
have enough time.
Goodbye, everybody.
Goodbye.
Mmm.
Huh?
I'll be seeing ya, Chris!
[Crying] Goodbye...
[Crying] Sonic.
[Grunting]
Sonic...
ALL: Oh!
[Evil chuckle]
Now that Sonic's team is down by
one annoying little pipsqueak,
we can finally get back to
building the Eggman Empire!
ALL: All right!
Eggman better not touch
the Master Emerald.
I have to go warn Sonic.
Come on, Cheese, our
friends need our help!
Chao!
I guess I'll join in, too.
This team could use
a little glamour.
Time to rev up the
X Tornado, you guys.
Life never stays slow
around here for long.
Thank goodness.
Watch out, Eggman!
I'm coming at ya, full speed!